# CMPSC 350: Computational Narrative Fall 2024

This repository contains information about the Computational Narrative course, including the course objectives and outcomes, policies, and the schedule.

# Content

- [**Schedule**](#Schedule)
- [Instructor](#Instructor)
- [Course Description](#Description)
- [Course Objectives](#Objectives)
- [Learning Outcomes](#Learning-Outcomes)
- [Community Guidelines](#Community-Guidelines)
- [Course Policies](#Policies)

## Course Flow and Schedule

Reading Discussion
Critique
Projects

Below is a tenative schedule of covered topics and associated activities. The schedule is subject to change with the addition of guest appearances.

Week #         | Topic              | Activities/Assignments  | Reading
---------------| ------------------ | ----------------------- | -----------
1 (Aug. 26-30) |          |                         |


## Instructor

Dr. Janyl Jumadinova

Office Location: Alden Hall 110

Office Phone: +1 814-332-2881

Email: jjumadinova@allegheny.edu

[Office Hours](https://janyljumadinova.com/schedule)

## Description

Credits: 4

A study of the craft and deployment of procedurally-generated digital narratives, placing an emphasis on using data sources and computational methods as storytelling media. Students focus on critical, close reading of professional and student works while completing a single long-form work of their own. Topics include natural language processing (NLP), procedural illustration, computational constraint, and the development of conceptual documentary works. Students are invited to use their own [departmentally approved laptop](https://www.cis.allegheny.edu/resources/laptops/) in this course; a limited number of laptops are available for use during class and lab sessions.

Prerequisite: CMPSC 101.

Distribution Requirements: HE, ME.

## Learning Outcomes:

- Correctly describe and apply best practices of prompt engineering across a range of large language model (LLM) platforms to design successful prompts.
- Evaluate texts generated by language technologies by applying contemporary and historical language, technology, and information theory.
- Demonstrate and criticize systemic bias, ethical issues, and failure modes inherent in language technologies such as LLMs.
- Develop software to interact with language model application programmer interfaces (APIs).
- Create and justify a body of text products that leverage text-to-text, text-to-image, and other language model technologies.

### Materials

There is no required materials for this course. All reading material will be provided by the instructor and linked on the [course schedule](#Schedule). 

### Distribution Learning Outcomes

- Human Experience (HE): The study of Human Experience explores human physical, mental, emotional, and/or spiritual experiences as conveyed in texts broadly defined. Through engagement with such texts, students develop an appreciation for human experiences and their representations.

    Learning Outcome: Students who successfully complete this requirement will demonstrate an understanding of how to interpret human experiences as conveyed in texts (including works of visual and performance art, rituals, cultural artifacts and traditions, and/or the written and spoken word).

  Course learning outcomes 2 and 3 satisfy HE learning outcome.

- Modes of Expression (ME): he study of Modes of Expression explores individual and/or collective modes of expression, focusing upon the ways in which these modes create meaning and communicate thoughts, emotions, or beliefs to others. By engaging in hands-on experience, students interrogate the act of communication itself.

    Learning Outcome: Students who successfully complete this requirement will demonstrate an understanding of the production of meaning through active engagement with language, visual arts, and/or performance.

  Program learning outcomes 2, 3, and 5 satisfy ME learning outcome.

## Policies

### Department Policies



### Grading

| Category      | Percentage |
| ----------- | ----------- | 
| Class Activities (0 or 1) | 40% |
| Projects (number grade) | 40% |
| Community Engagement (2 events) | 10% |
| Quizzes (number grade) | 10% |

### Grading Scale

|Grading scale|            |             |            |             |            |
|:------------|:-----------|:------------|:-----------|:------------|:-----------|
|A            | 96 - 100   |A-           | 90 - 95.9  |
|B+           | 87 - 89.9  |B            | 83 - 86.9  |B-           | 80 - 82.9  |
|C+           | 77 - 79.9  |C            | 73 - 76.9  |C-           | 70 - 72.9  |
|D+           | 67 - 69.9  |D            | 63 - 66.9  |F           | 59.9 and below  |

#### Class Activities

All students are required to actively participate during all of the class sessions. During nearly all class sessions, you will be required to complete and submit class activities (individually and in teams). You will receive a checkmark grade (1) if you complete more than 70% of the activity; otherwise you will receive a 0.

##### Presentations

At various points of the course, students will engage with learning "hot topics" as they relate to robotics in the field and civic learning and report on their findings to our class community. Each presentation will count as a class activity.

#### Projects

Graded on a percentage and credit/no-credit basis, five project assignments, invite students to experiment with various tools and techniques for designing, implementing, evaluating, and documenting your robotic agent system. Additionally, you will be required to submit reflections on the civic learning components if relevant to the particular project.  To best ensure that students are ready to develop software  after graduation, students will complete most of the lab assignments in teams. Many of the lab assignments in this course will expect students to give both a presentation and a demonstration of the system that they created.

#### Showcase

A significant portion of the course asks the students to study and reflect on public problems related to the field of robotics. As a part of civic learning in this course you will be required to engage in the community. This will mainly involve developing software and hardware to be presented to our local community and then participating in appropriate outreach events. 

#### Quizzes

The quiz will cover all of the material in its associated module and are short 10 question assessments completed during the class session. Five quizzes are anticipated throughout the semester. Unless prior arrangements are made with the instructor, all students will be expected to take the quizzes on the
scheduled dates. 

#### Assignment Submission

All assignments have a stated due date and are to be turned in on that due date. By submitting each assignment a student pledges that they have complied with Allegheny Honor Code. You must follow assignment instructions for submitting your projects in order for them to be graded. Unless special arrangements are made with the course instructor, no assignments will be accepted after the late deadline.

#### Attendance

It is mandatory for all students to attend all of the class and laboratory sessions. There are two types of excused absences: 1) the one you notify the instructor about in advance (for example, if you have a job interview during the class/lab time or have a religious observance), 2) the one that occurs due to a documented emergency or illness. If you will not be able to attend a session, please let the instructor know at least one day in advance to describe your situation. In case you missed a class because of an emergency or an illness, please notify the instructor as soon as possible. In both cases the instructor will work with you to get you caught up. Students who miss more than five unexcused sessions will have their final grade in the course reduced by one letter grade. If you need to miss class due to a religious observance, please speak to me in advance to make appropriate arrangements.

#### Communication

Various digital channels are used in this course for communication, including email, Discord, and the GitHub issue tracker. Additionally, the course website is used to store the link to the course GitHub Organization, which will contain course syllabus, course schedule and the assignments. Students are responsible for regularly checking all platforms to ensure that the important messages are not being missed.

## Allegheny College Policy and Awareness Statements

### Statement of Community

>  Allegheny students and employees are committed to creating an inclusive, respectful and safe residential learning community that will actively confront and challenge racism, sexism, heterosexism, religious bigotry, and other forms of harassment and discrimination. We encourage individual growth by promoting a free exchange of ideas in a setting that values diversity, trust and equality. So that the right of all to participate in a shared learning experience is upheld, Allegheny affirms its commitment to the principles of freedom of speech and inquiry, while at the same time fostering responsibility and accountability in the exercise of these freedoms.

### Seeking assistance

#### Assistance with course concepts

Students who struggle to understand knowledge and skills defined in this course are encouraged to seek assistance from the Mayor and teaching assistants. To meet with me, consult my available office hours (above) and make an appointment.

Historically, students who are successful in my courses visit and discuss course concepts with the Mayor and Technical Leaders early and often. See [above for my office hours](#office-hours) or go to [this schedule for Technical Leaders' office hours](https://www.cs.allegheny.edu/teaching/technicalleaders/).

#### Assistance outside of the course

If you find yourself in difficult circumstances which affect your ability to participate in or complete course work, let me know immediately. Full stop.

Do not wait until the end of the semester. 

Part of my job as the Mayor of `term-world` is to make sure that students receive the assistance they need. Do not hesitate to let me know if there is anything I can do with respect to your ability to handle your work. This is especially true of our current circumstances. Again, let me remind you -- __**it is part of my job**__ to help you access Allegheny College resources that will enable your safety and success.

#### Educational Accommodations (prepared by SASS)

Students with disabilities who believe they may need accommodations in this class are encouraged to contact Student Accessibility and Support Services (SASS) at (814) 332-2898.  Student Accessibility and Support Services is located in Pelletier Library.  Please do this as soon as possible to ensure that such accommodations are implemented in a timely fashion. Please see [student accessibility website](https://sites.allegheny.edu/studentaccessibility) for more details.

#### Religious Observance (prepared by SRL)

If you need to miss class or reschedule a final examination due to a religious observance, please speak to the professor well in advance to make arrangements. Please see [religious holidays website](https://sites.allegheny.edu/religiouslife/religious-holy-days) for more details.

#### Academic Alerts (prepared by MCSS)

Allegheny College uses an Academic Alert system to send progress notices to the class deans in the Maytum Center for Student Success (MCSS). The progress notices are not punitive. They are an opportunity to connect you with your class dean who can offer additional support and suggest resources if you need assistance. These notices may encourage faculty advisors, coaches (for student-athletes), or other support staff to provide outreach to you as well.

#### Mental Health and Wellness (prepared by Wellness in Student Life)

As a college student, there may be times when personal stressors, struggles, and/or traumas interfere with your academic performance and/or negatively impact your daily life. Allegheny College recognizes that mental health is an important piece of the holistic human experience, and that this experience influences your academic success. We encourage students to prioritize their mental well-being by seeking services and support as needed.

Keep in mind, course deadlines, absences, and accommodations for mental health are subject to the course policies and expectations that are set within this syllabus. Students are encouraged to communicate with their professors as soon as possible regarding their needs and seek support if their mental health impacts their academic performance or daily life. When you find yourself struggling emotionally, remember that there are supports available, and you are not alone.

Students who are in need of mental health support can access multiple resources to receive support.  The 98.6 CampusCare app provides physical and behavioral health consultation and supports free of charge 24/7 via telehealth for any actively enrolled student who downloads and signs up with their smartphone.  Allegheny College has also partnered with ECPS (Edinboro Counseling and Psychological Services) to provide in-person therapy on campus. The ECPS partnership with Allegheny College delivers holistic mental health services to the Allegheny College student community through brief individual counseling, and crisis support. Students may request services from ECPS by calling (814) 332-4368 or by emailing the Wellness Case Manager at wellness@allegheny.edu.

If you or someone you know is experiencing a mental health emergency, please call the 988 Suicide and Crisis Lifeline, Public Safety (814-332-3357), or 911. All of these urgent resources are available 24/7/365.  When in doubt, reach out.

#### Gator Success Grants

The Gator Success Grant program is designed to provide students with additional financial assistance to offset the total cost of college attendance and to encourage successful on-time degree completion. Currently enrolled students who have an unanticipated need are invited to apply. Grants are usually from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars, depending on the request and the student’s need. Please direct questions to `studentsuccess@allegheny.edu`.

#### Class Deans (prepared by MCSS) 

The Office of Class Deans in Pelletier Library serves as a place for students to begin seeking assistance and answers to their questions related to college life. If you have a question and don’t know who to ask – ask a class dean. If you want advice – talk to a class dean. Erin O’Day-Frye is the First Year Class Dean, Amy Stearns is the Second Year Class Dean / Director of Transfer Advising, and Jonathon May is the Third/Fourth Year Class Dean. Please contact them individually or through `studentsuccess@allegheny.edu``.

#### Recording Policy (prepared by Campus Life and Community Standards Committee)

In remote teaching and learning contexts, there is an understanding that instructors (including faculty, coaches, staff, and facilitators) have the right to record class and discussion proceedings.  All other participants must request permission of the instructor in advance before making any additional recordings.  An instructor’s pre-recorded material, including lectures and class notes, may not be shared with anyone outside of the course’s current enrollment without the consent of the instructor. Similarly, under no circumstances may a recording, still, screenshot, picture, or any other media of any sort be altered or circulated by anyone outside of its original intent. No content may be distributed outside the circle of participants without the consent of all who appear or are heard. The college community is reminded of Allegheny College’s Recording Policy, outlined in 9.8 of the Faculty Handbook, as well as Allegheny’s Statement of Community. Violations will be referred to the Student Conduct system.  Classes may also be recorded if approved as an educational accommodation through the Student Accessibility and Support Services. Faculty are further reminded that recordings of class activities are educational records protected under FERPA. While students do not have a right to be anonymous in a class in which they are enrolled, they have the legal right to be anonymous to third parties. Please direct questions about FERPA to the Registrar.

#### Harassment, Discrimination, and Sexual Misconduct Reporting (prepared by the Title IX Coordinator)

Allegheny College and Federal law (Title IX) prohibit discrimination and harassment on the basis of sex in College’s programs and activities. If you, or someone you know, has experienced sex-based discrimination or harassment, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, sexual exploitation, or retaliation contact the College’s Title IX Coordinator to make a report and/or access support and resources:

Gilly Ford, Title IX Coordinator, 814-332-3085 (direct line), `gford@allegheny.edu`

You can access support and resources even if you do not want to take any further action. The College respects your right to file or not file a formal complaint. The Title IX Coordinator must take action only in situations that pose a serious threat of harm to you or the community. 

`Notice that Faculty are Responsible Employees with Mandatory Reporting Obligations:`
Unless specifically identified otherwise by policy, all faculty, staff, and administrators of Allegheny College are considered mandated reporters and are required to notify the College’s Title IX Coordinator of any incident of discrimination and harassment disclosed to them, or known to them, involving a member of the campus community. Mandated reporting helps to ensure that individuals who are experiencing or have experienced discrimination or harassment are connected to the full range of resources and options afforded to them. 
If you are in need of support or advocacy and wish to discuss such matters confidentially, you are invited to consult any of the resources listed below. Unlike other College employees, the options below are confidential and are exempt from mandatory reporting obligations to the Title IX Coordinator. These resources are free and include both internal and external options.

*On Campus Options:*

- Meadville Medical Center @ Winslow - (814-332-4355) - Walk-ins welcome - Open from M-F 10am-3pm (last patient check-in at 2:30pm) while classes are in session.
- ECPS partnership with Allegheny College (Edinboro Counseling and Psychological Services) - (814) 332-4368 - Please call to schedule an appointment.
- 98point6 CampusCare - Allegheny students can download the app for iOS or Android smartphones, confirm their cell phone number, and complete their profile to receive services.  This physical/behavioral telehealth service is free of charge for all actively enrolled students at Allegheny College.
- Wellness in Student Life - wellness@allegheny.edu - (814) 332-2782 

*Off Campus Options:*

- Meadville Medical Center Emergency Room, 751 Liberty Street – (814) 333-5500
- Meadville Crisis Line, (814) 724-2732
- Women's Services, Inc., (814) 724-4637 (office)
- 24- hour Hotlines: (814) 333-9766  or (888) 881-0189
